FED - freelist equity distributer
CRD - credit for a lock..
wallet - wallet holds ur CRD
breadline - wait in this line
soupline - if u cant get in breadline called soupline

pagecoloring - placing data within cache to spread out the data.
				to prevent lock contention issues.
				

advantage of kernel cage

bounce predictor 
	- predicting large pages for both user and kernel

100 MB of memory for every 100 Hz of cpu


page coalescing


floorwaxes - SNL


size of page structure - 128 bits.

from vnode and offset do a hashing algorithm to get page.


tile is granularity for NUMA placement and lock contention


::tile -v
M - holding lock
ID - 
MGROUP - power management, idea didnt pan out
MNODE  - mnode number
Priority - dont allocate this part..for example old 32 bit drivers can only use
that memory
Kernel - available - 
		grow - 

T is type- k is kernel pages, u is user pages, + user and kernel pages

cache list - 

borrow	-	user borrowed a page from a kernel page.

good segway - not related

256 tilets per tile. A given tile need not be tile.
a given tilet are divided to pages of page size

kernel grows per tilet not per page.

tilechunk is one or more tilets and contiguous tile. and it is at least as big
as the largest page for that system. So now we can accomodate more than the
highest page
0


memgrp is same is memnode..and not used as no gain in power save over overhead

::szc  - page size


more page sizes means memory access is 7 pico seconds extra..so thats a
problem..


mnode so that we get locality of reference.

why large pages - less TLB misses, simplifies address translation and less
translation requires for same file.

problems with large pages - 4m page is actually contageous 4kpages..so if we
dont have enough memory then relocate other pages to make room...also if we
evict the pages then we have to break up the big page into small pages because
we don't know if swap has enough free 4m space to put this big page in..so lot
of overhead.


if page size is as big as cache then no color

2mb cache page size of 512k then 4 colors

kernel cage should be a bit spread out otherwise bus contention as everybody has
to access kernel cage.

breadline - for each mnode

taskq thread is used for asynch processes.


